Update connecting endpoints guide (#1821)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/integrate-blockchain/connecting-endpoints.adoc

= Connecting to endpoints

> Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io> Christopher Braithwaite <christopher.braithwaite@lightcurve.io>

Reviewer: Whilst generating a preview, I get the following errors, please resolve them.
![image](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/assets/13951043/8624bf43-0c18-4580-9e91-99574f5f8fc9)

//External URLs
:url_npm_lisk_sdk: https://www.npmjs.com/package/lisk-sdk
:JSON_RPC_Specs: https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification
:url_socket_io: https://socket.io/

> :url_readme: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-core/tree/v4.0.0-beta.3#configuring-lisk-node

Reviewer: Since the page now has info about connecting via endpoints to the Lisk service. Please make a minor update in the `api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc` file.

Update line 7 to this:
`integrate-blockchain/connecting-endpoints.adoc#connecting-to-lisk-service`

:url_api_http:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:url_api_mainnet: https://service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_testnet: https://testnet-service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_http_testnet:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-http-testnet.adoc

:url_rpc_api_mainnet: wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3
:url_api_rpc:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:url_subscribing_to_events: /subscribing-to-events.adoc

// TODO: Update the page by uncommenting the hyperlinks once the updated pages are available.

On this page, connecting via endpoints to both nodes and products such as Lisk Service are covered, and examples are provided on how the relevant endpoints can be invoked within the Lisk ecosystem.

By default, Lisk exposes xref:{url_advanced_rpc_endpoints}[a range of endpoints] to enable communicate with a node or via Lisk Service.

Furthermore, xref:{url_intro_modules}[Modules] and xref:{url_intro_plugins}[Plugins] of a blockchain client can also expose endpoints as described in the guides about xref:{url_endpoints_modules}[implementing endpoints for a module] and xref:{url_endpoints_plugins}[creating an endpoint for a plugin], respectively.

[[the-api-client]]

> == Connecting to a node

Author: Yes, good point. I have added in a note to reflect this. 👍

:url_intro_plugins: understand-blockchain/sdk/plugins.adoc
// :url_references_elements_apiclient: {sdk_docs}references/lisk-elements/api-client.adoc
// :url_references_elements_client: {sdk_docs}references/lisk-elements/client.adoc
// :url_advanced_rpc_endpoints: {url_advanced_rpc}#endpoints
:url_advanced_rpc_endpoints: api/lisk-node-rpc.adoc
:url_rpc_api: api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc#introduction-to-lisk-service-endpoints
:url_api_http:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:url_api_mainnet: https://service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_testnet: https://testnet-service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_http_testnet:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-http-testnet.adoc

:url_rpc_api_mainnet: wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3
:url_api_rpc:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc

> :url_subscribing_to_events: ROOT::api/lisk-service-pubsub.adoc

Reviewer 2: For relevance, I'd also recommend renaming the variable 🙂 
```suggestion
:url_lisk_service_pubsub: ROOT::api/lisk-service-pubsub.adoc
```

// TODO: Update the page by uncommenting the hyperlinks once the updated pages are available.

On this page, connecting via endpoints to both nodes and products such as Lisk Service are covered, and examples are provided on how the relevant endpoints can be invoked within the Lisk ecosystem.

By default, Lisk exposes xref:{url_advanced_rpc_endpoints}[a range of endpoints] to enable communicate with a node or via Lisk Service.

Furthermore, xref:{url_intro_modules}[Modules] and xref:{url_intro_plugins}[Plugins] of a blockchain client can also expose endpoints as described in the guides about xref:{url_endpoints_modules}[implementing endpoints for a module] and xref:{url_endpoints_plugins}[creating an endpoint for a plugin], respectively.

[[the-api-client]]
== Connecting to a node
=== Invoking via API client

// The xref:{url_references_elements_apiclient}[] simplifies sending API requests to a blockchain application. 
The API client simplifies sending API requests to a blockchain node.

External services communicate to a blockchain node via RPCs.

The RPC-based endpoint invocations to the nodes are possible over IPC, WS, or HTTP.

> NOTE: To interact with the node APIs through IPC, WS, or HTTP, it is necessary to enable the corresponding APIs. This can be done by configuring them in the xref:{url_enable_apis}[node settings], using command line flags, or setting up the environment when launching the blockchain application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: To interact with the node APIs through IPC, WS, or HTTP, it is necessary to enable the corresponding APIs. This can be done by configuring them in the xref:{url_enable_apis}[node settings], using command line flags, or setting up the relevant environment variables when launching the blockchain application.
```

:url_api_mainnet: https://service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_testnet: https://testnet-service.lisk.com/api/v3
:url_api_http_testnet:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-http-testnet.adoc

:url_rpc_api_mainnet: wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3
:url_api_rpc:  ROOT::api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:url_lisk_service_pubsub: ROOT::api/lisk-service-pubsub.adoc
:url_enable_apis: integrate-blockchain/aggregate-blockchain-data/index.adoc#enable-api-on-the-blockchain-node

// TODO: Update the page by uncommenting the hyperlinks once the updated pages are available.

On this page, connecting via endpoints to both nodes and products such as Lisk Service are covered, and examples are provided on how the relevant endpoints can be invoked within the Lisk ecosystem.

By default, Lisk exposes xref:{url_advanced_rpc_endpoints}[a range of endpoints] to enable communicate with a node or via Lisk Service.

Furthermore, xref:{url_intro_modules}[Modules] and xref:{url_intro_plugins}[Plugins] of a blockchain client can also expose endpoints as described in the guides about xref:{url_endpoints_modules}[implementing endpoints for a module] and xref:{url_endpoints_plugins}[creating an endpoint for a plugin], respectively.

> 

Reviewer: Please also add a link to any module API reference, so that the reader knows where to look for module related apis

By default, Lisk exposes xref:{url_advanced_rpc_endpoints}[a range of endpoints] to enable communication with a node or via Lisk Service.

Furthermore, xref:{url_intro_modules}[Modules] and xref:{url_intro_plugins}[Plugins] of a blockchain client can also expose endpoints as described in the guides about xref:{url_endpoints_modules}[implementing endpoints for a module] and xref:{url_endpoints_plugins}[creating an endpoint for a plugin], respectively.

In addition, further information can be found regarding module endpoints in the specific module endpoint reference pages, for example, the xref:{url_auth_module}[Auth module endpoint].

== Connecting to a node

[NOTE]
====
* In order to make the endpoints accessible, the configuration setting `rpc.allowedMethods` must either specify `["*"]` to allow all methods.

* Alternatively, it can specify the module name, for example, such as `["consensus","token","pos"]`, or the exact method names such as ["chain_getLastBlock", "system_getNodeInfo"] to expose them in the API.

* For further details please see the {url_readme}[Configuring Lisk Node] section in the Lisk Core README file.

> ====

Reviewer: The `NOTE` starting at **lines 56 to 63** should be converted into a sub-section called Preliminaries or Preparing a node, etc. Please also take out the text from the `NOTE` mentioned on **line 75** and make it part of this section. Remove both notes.

[[the-api-client]]
=== Invoking via API client

// The xref:{url_references_elements_apiclient}[] simplifies sending API requests to a blockchain application. 
The API client simplifies sending API requests to a blockchain node.

External services communicate to a blockchain node via RPCs.

The RPC-based endpoint invocations to the nodes are possible over IPC, WS, or HTTP.

NOTE: To interact with the node APIs through IPC, WS, or HTTP, it is necessary to enable the corresponding APIs. This can be done by configuring them in the xref:{url_enable_apis}[node settings], using command line flags, or setting up the relevant environment variables when launching the blockchain application.

An API client can be imported into any JS client application as shown in the following snippets.

> 

Reviewer: **LINE 80:**

TIP: To conveniently communicate with a blockchain node, use the `*apiClient*` included in the `*@liskhq/lisk-client*` and the `*lisk-sdk*` packages.

On this page, we discuss how endpoints of a Lisk blockchain node and Lisk products i.e., Lisk Service can be invoked.
By default, Lisk exposes xref:{url_advanced_rpc_endpoints}[a range of endpoints] to enable communication with a blockchain node.
On top of that, the Lisk service also provides its own  xref:{url_lisk-service_rpc_endpoints}[set of endpoints] that offer even more extensive blockchain data.

Furthermore, xref:{url_intro_modules}[Modules] and xref:{url_intro_plugins}[Plugins] of a blockchain client can also expose endpoints.
By default, Lisk exposes various module-based endpoints as well, an example of which is the xref:{url_auth_module}[Auth module endpoints].
It is also possible to develop endpoints for custom modules and plugins.
For more information, see xref:{url_endpoints_modules}[implementing endpoints for a module] and xref:{url_endpoints_plugins}[creating an endpoint for a plugin] guides, respectively.

In addition, further information can be found regarding module endpoints in the specific module endpoint reference pages, for example, the xref:{url_auth_module}[Auth module endpoint].

== Preliminaries

> * In order to make the endpoints accessible, the configuration setting `rpc.allowedMethods` must either specify `["*"]` to allow all methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In order to make the endpoints accessible, the configuration setting: `rpc.allowedMethods` should specify `["*"]` to allow all methods.
```

* Alternatively, it can specify the module name, for example, `["consensus","token","pos"]`, or the exact method names such as `["chain_getLastBlock", "system_getNodeInfo"]` to expose them in the API.

* For further details please see the {url_readme}[Configuring Lisk Node] section in the Lisk Core README file.

> * To interact with the node APIs through IPC, WS, or HTTP, it is necessary to enable the corresponding APIs. This can be done by configuring them in the xref:{url_enable_apis}[node settings], using command line flags, or setting up the relevant environment variables when launching the blockchain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To interact with the node APIs through IPC, WS, or HTTP, it is necessary to enable the corresponding APIs. This can be done by configuring them in the xref:{url_enable_apis}[node settings], using command line flags, or setting up the relevant environment variables when launching the Lisk application.
```

> RPC-based interfaces i.e., IPC, WS, or HTTP allow applications to *invoke* RPC endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The RPC-based endpoint invocations to the nodes are possible over IPC, WS, or HTTP.
```
or
```suggestion
The RPC-based endpoint invocations to the nodes can be made over IPC, WS, or HTTP.
```

The RPC-based endpoint invocations to the nodes are possible over IPC, WS, or HTTP.

An API client can be imported into any JS client application as shown in the following snippets.

// TIP: To conveniently communicate with a blockchain application, use the `apiClient` included in the xref:{url_references_elements_client}[@liskhq/lisk-client] and the {url_npm_lisk_sdk}[lisk-sdk^] packages.

> TIP: To conveniently communicate with a blockchain node, use the *apiClient* included in the *@liskhq/lisk-client* and the *lisk-sdk* packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TIP: To conveniently communicate with a blockchain node, use the `*apiClient*` included in the `*@liskhq/lisk-client*` and the `*lisk-sdk*` packages.
```

----
====

> === Invoking via the node CLI

Reviewer 2: It's also important to mention a NOTE that for the endpoints to be accessible, `rpc.allowedMethods` needs to specify `["*"]` for all the methods or the module name (`["consensus", "token", "pos"]`) or the exact method names (`["chain_getLastBlock", "system_getNodeInfo"]`) to expose them in the API. Ref: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-core/tree/v4.0.0-beta.3#configuring-lisk-node (please check the NOTE).

> ----

Reviewer 2: On L136, the source needs to be set to `[source,bash]`.

Author: Yes, indeed..Now done 👍

====

> === Invoking via the node CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Invoking via the CLI
```

Any endpoint within the Lisk ecosystem can be invoked via node CLI as well.
For more information, check out the xref:{url_cli}[Client CLI] page.

NOTE: If you are running *Lisk Core*, you can use mostly the same CLI commands as in the general node CLI.
Just replace `./bin/run` with `lisk-core` in that case.

> To invoke an endpoint via node CLI, simply use the `endpoint:invoke` command as shown in the following code snippet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To invoke an endpoint via the CLI, simply use the `endpoint:invoke` command as shown in the following code snippet.
```

NOTE: In order to make the endpoints accessible, the configuration setting `rpc.allowedMethods` must either specify `["*"]` to allow all methods.
Alternatively, it can specify the module name, for example, such as `["consensus","token","pos"]`, or the exact method names such as ["chain_getLastBlock", "system_getNodeInfo"] to expose them in the API.

> For further details please see the {url_readme}[Configuring Lisk Node] section in the Readme file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For further details please see the {url_readme}[Configuring Lisk Node] section in the Lisk Core README file.
```

> For further details please see the {url_readme}[Configuring Lisk Node] section in the Lisk Core README file.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we should move this `NOTE` above directly under the `Connecting to a node` header as this information is applicable for all the methods of endpoint invocation (WS/IPC/HTTP).

Author: Good point...Now done 👍

----
====

=== Invoking via the CLI
Any endpoint within the Lisk ecosystem can be invoked via node CLI as well.
For more information, check out the xref:{url_cli}[Client CLI] page.

NOTE: If you are running *Lisk Core*, you can use mostly the same CLI commands as in the general node CLI.

> Just replace `./bin/run` with `lisk-core` in that case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just replace `*./bin/run*` with `*lisk-core*` in that case.
```

To invoke an endpoint via the CLI, simply use the `endpoint:invoke` command as shown in the following code snippet.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Invoking an endpoint via CLI
```

  ]
}
----

== Connecting to Lisk Service

=== Invoking via WebSocket

The API base URL is the base URL for the Lisk Service WS-RPC endpoints, that are available to query under the `/rpc-v3` namespace.

* *WS-RPC:* `wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3`

For WS, the RPC endpoint name is passed in the method property after establishing a WebSocket connection using {url_socket_io}[socket.io].
More detailed information and examples can be found on the xref:{url_rpc_api}[RPC API of Lisk service page].

[tabs]
=====
WS RPC API::
+
--
[source,js]
----

});
----

--
=====

=== Invoking the HTTP API

> Using the xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] offers a RESTful API with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications built with the Lisk SDK.

Author: Thanks, slightly reworded this accordingly. 👍

> There is a public Lisk Service HTTP API for every public Lisk blockchain network, which can be used to query the desired information from the network.

Author: OK, good point. I have slightly reworded this sentence.

  ]
}
----

== Connecting to Lisk Service

=== Invoking via WebSocket

The API base URL is the base URL for the Lisk Service WS-RPC endpoints, that are available to query under the `/rpc-v3` namespace.

* *WS-RPC:* `wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3`

For WS, the RPC endpoint name is passed in the method property after establishing a WebSocket connection using {url_socket_io}[socket.io].
An example using the WS JSON-RPC API can be seen below.

[tabs]
=====
WS JSON-RPC API::
+
--
[source,js]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const REQUEST_TIMEOUT = 10 * 1000;

const apiEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3';
const rpcEndpoint = 'get.network.status';
const rpcParams = {};

const socket = io(
	apiEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

socket.emit(

> 	'request',

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	'request', // channel on which Lisk Service handles the WS-RPC calls
```

	{
		method: rpcEndpoint,
		params: rpcParams,
	},
	answer => {
		console.log(JSON.stringify(answer, null, 2));
		process.exit(0);
	},
);

setTimeout(
	() => {

> 		console.log('Request time out - could not get a response.');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		console.log('Request timeout - could not get a response.');
```

		process.exit(1);
	},
	REQUEST_TIMEOUT,
);
----

--
=====
More detailed information and examples can be found on the xref:{url_rpc_api}[RPC API of Lisk Service page].

=== Invoking the HTTP API

Using the xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] offers a RESTful API with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications that are compliant with the Lisk protocol.

There is a public Lisk Service HTTP API, which can be used to query the desired information from the network.

Lisk Mainnet::
* Public API base URL: `{url_api_mainnet}`
* API specification: xref:{url_api_http}[Lisk Service HTTP API reference (Mainnet)]

Lisk Testnet::
* Public API base URL: `{url_api_testnet}`
* API specification: xref:{url_api_http_testnet}[Lisk Service HTTP API reference (Testnet)]

In addition to the WS and IPC method, Lisk endpoints also support HTTP requests and response mechanisms, such as HTTP Axios and cURL.
[tabs]
=====
HTTP Axios::
+
--
[source,js]
----
const axios = require('axios');

> const getEndpoint = 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v2/network/status';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const getEndpoint = 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/network/status';
```

axios.get(getEndpoint)
	.then((axiosResponse) => {
		const { data: apiResponse } = axiosResponse;
		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});

> 
> 
> const postEndpoint = 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key';
> const postEndpointParams = {

Reviewer 2: Similar to the cURL notes, perhaps we can do the same for the Axios example too.
```suggestion
----
--
An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.
--
[source,json]
----
const axios = require('axios');

const postEndpoint = 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key';
const postEndpointParams = {
```

  blsKey: 'b301803f8b5ac4a1133581fc676dfedc60d891dd5fa99028805e5ea5b08d3491af75d0707adab3b70c6a6a580217bf81',
  proofOfPossession: '88bb31b27eae23038e14f9d9d1b628a39f5881b5278c3c6f0249f81ba0deb1f68aa5f8847854d6554051aa810fdf1cdb02df4af7a5647b1aa4afb60ec6d446ee17af24a8a50876ffdaf9bf475038ec5f8ebeda1c1c6a3220293e23b13a9a5d26',
};

axios.post(
	postEndpoint,
	postEndpointParams,
)
	.then((axiosResponse) => {
		const { data: apiResponse } = axiosResponse;
		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});
----
--
HTTP cURL::
To check the network status the following command can be used.
+
--
// With a {JSON_RPC_Specs}[JSON RPC 2.0] based format, any endpoint can be invoked using a cURL request.
[source,json]
----
curl --location --request GET 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/network/status'
----
--

> An example of how execute a POST request to validate the BLS key is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.
```

+
--
[source,json]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "blsKey": "b301803f8b5ac4a1133581fc676dfedc60d891dd5fa99028805e5ea5b08d3491af75d0707adab3b70c6a6a580217bf81",
  "proofOfPossession": "88bb31b27eae23038e14f9d9d1b628a39f5881b5278c3c6f0249f81ba0deb1f68aa5f8847854d6554051aa810fdf1cdb02df4af7a5647b1aa4afb60ec6d446ee17af24a8a50876ffdaf9bf475038ec5f8ebeda1c1c6a3220293e23b13a9a5d26"
}'
----
=====

=== Subscribe Events
The Subscribe events feature allows connecting to specific endpoints to receive real-time updates or notifications, as shown in the examples below.
Further information can be found in the xref:{url_subscribing_to_events}[Subscribing to events] page.

[tabs]
=====
Subscribe - Specific Event::
+
--
[source,js]
----

> onst io = require('socket.io-client');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const io = require('socket.io-client');
```

const subscriptionEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/blockchain';
const eventName = 'new.block';

const socket = io(
	subscriptionEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

socket.on(
	eventName,
	(data) => {
		console.log(`Event: ${eventName}`);
		console.log('Payload:', JSON.stringify(data, null, 2), '\n');
	}
);
----
--

> Subscribe - Any Event::

Reviewer 2: Perhaps, both `Subscribe - Specific Event` and the `Subscribe - All Events` can be two different tabs?
```suggestion
Subscribe - All Events::
```

Reviewer 2: Seems like that was the intention all along but there's something wrong with the rendering. Could you please look into it? 🙏

Author: Yes, I had already fixed, so it should be fine now 👍

+
--
[source,json]
----

> cconst io = require('socket.io-client');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const io = require('socket.io-client');
```

};

axios.post(
	postEndpoint,
	postEndpointParams,
)
	.then((axiosResponse) => {
		const { data: apiResponse } = axiosResponse;
		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});
----
--
HTTP cURL::
To check the network status the following command can be used.
+
--
// With a {JSON_RPC_Specs}[JSON RPC 2.0] based format, any endpoint can be invoked using a cURL request.
[source,json]
----
curl --location --request GET 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/network/status'
----
--
An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.
+
--
[source,json]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "blsKey": "b301803f8b5ac4a1133581fc676dfedc60d891dd5fa99028805e5ea5b08d3491af75d0707adab3b70c6a6a580217bf81",
  "proofOfPossession": "88bb31b27eae23038e14f9d9d1b628a39f5881b5278c3c6f0249f81ba0deb1f68aa5f8847854d6554051aa810fdf1cdb02df4af7a5647b1aa4afb60ec6d446ee17af24a8a50876ffdaf9bf475038ec5f8ebeda1c1c6a3220293e23b13a9a5d26"
}'
----
=====

> === Subscribe Events

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Subscribe to Events
```

The Subscribe events feature allows connecting to specific endpoints to receive real-time updates or notifications, as shown in the examples below.
Further information can be found in the xref:{url_subscribing_to_events}[Subscribing to events] page.

[tabs]
=====
Subscribe - Specific Event::
+
--
[source,js]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const subscriptionEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/blockchain';
const eventName = 'new.block';

const socket = io(
	subscriptionEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

socket.on(
	eventName,

> 	(data) => {
> 		console.log(`Event: ${eventName}`);
> 		console.log('Payload:', JSON.stringify(data, null, 2), '\n');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	(eventPayload) => {
		console.log(`Event: ${eventName}`);
		console.log('Payload:', JSON.stringify(eventPayload, null, 2), '\n');
```

	}
);
----
--
Subscribe - All Events::
+
--
[source,json]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const subscriptionEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/blockchain';

const socket = io(
	subscriptionEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

const onevent = socket.onevent;
socket.onevent = function (packet) {
    const args = packet.data || [];
    onevent.call (this, packet);
    packet.data = ['*'].concat(args);
    onevent.call(this, packet);
};

socket.on(
	'*',

> 	(eventName, data) => {
> 		console.log(`Event: ${eventName}`);
> 		console.log('Payload:', JSON.stringify(data, null, 2), '\n');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	(eventName, eventPayload) => {
		console.log(`Event: ${eventName}`);
		console.log('Payload:', JSON.stringify(eventPayload, null, 2), '\n');
```

  ]
}
----

== Connecting to Lisk Service

=== Invoking via WebSocket

The API base URL is the base URL for the Lisk Service WS-RPC endpoints, that are available to query under the `/rpc-v3` namespace.

* *WS-RPC:* `wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3`

> For WS, the RPC endpoint name is passed in the method property after establishing a WebSocket connection using {url_socket_io}[socket.io].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For WS, the RPC endpoint name is passed in the `method` property after establishing a WebSocket connection using {url_socket_io}[socket.io].
```

An example using the WS JSON-RPC API can be seen below.

[tabs]
=====
WS JSON-RPC API::
+
--
[source,js]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const REQUEST_TIMEOUT = 10 * 1000;

const apiEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3';
const rpcEndpoint = 'get.network.status';
const rpcParams = {};

const socket = io(
	apiEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

socket.emit(
	'request', // channel on which Lisk Service handles the WS-RPC calls
	{
		method: rpcEndpoint,
		params: rpcParams,
	},
	answer => {
		console.log(JSON.stringify(answer, null, 2));
		process.exit(0);
	},
);

setTimeout(
	() => {
		console.log('Request timeout - could not get a response.');
		process.exit(1);
	},
	REQUEST_TIMEOUT,
);
----

--
=====

> More detailed information and examples can be found on the xref:{url_rpc_api}[RPC API of Lisk Service page].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed information and examples please visit the xref:{url_rpc_api}[RPC API Lisk Service] page.
```

=== Invoking the HTTP API

> Using the xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] offers a RESTful API with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications that are compliant with the Lisk protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lisk Service also offers a RESTful xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications that are compliant with the Lisk protocol.
```

> There is a public Lisk Service HTTP API, which can be used to query the desired information from the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is a public Lisk Service HTTP API, which can be used to query the desired information from the Lisk Core mainchain network.
```

Lisk Mainnet::
* Public API base URL: `{url_api_mainnet}`
* API specification: xref:{url_api_http}[Lisk Service HTTP API reference (Mainnet)]

Lisk Testnet::
* Public API base URL: `{url_api_testnet}`
* API specification: xref:{url_api_http_testnet}[Lisk Service HTTP API reference (Testnet)]

> In addition to the WS and IPC method, Lisk endpoints also support HTTP requests and response mechanisms, such as HTTP Axios and cURL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Lisk Service HTTP API can be accessed using request libraries such as Axios or a command-line tool such as cURL, as shown below.
```

};

axios.post(
	postEndpoint,
	postEndpointParams,
)
	.then((axiosResponse) => {
		const { data: apiResponse } = axiosResponse;
		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});
----
--
HTTP cURL::
To check the network status the following command can be used.
+
--
// With a {JSON_RPC_Specs}[JSON RPC 2.0] based format, any endpoint can be invoked using a cURL request.
[source,bash]
----
curl --location --request GET 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/network/status'
----
--
An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.
+
--
[source,bash]
----
curl --location --request POST 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
  "blsKey": "b301803f8b5ac4a1133581fc676dfedc60d891dd5fa99028805e5ea5b08d3491af75d0707adab3b70c6a6a580217bf81",
  "proofOfPossession": "88bb31b27eae23038e14f9d9d1b628a39f5881b5278c3c6f0249f81ba0deb1f68aa5f8847854d6554051aa810fdf1cdb02df4af7a5647b1aa4afb60ec6d446ee17af24a8a50876ffdaf9bf475038ec5f8ebeda1c1c6a3220293e23b13a9a5d26"
}'
----
=====

> === Subscribe to Events

Reviewer 2: These are two different events we're talking about. The information contained here is for the events (over WS) from the `Subscribe API` that Lisk Service offers. The URL shared above mentions about fetch on-chain (blockchain) events from the node.

> === Subscribe to Events

Reviewer: The page mentioned will also be tweaked in the same manner this page has been tweaked. We consider this page to be a one-stop shop for whoever wants to invoke an endpoint in the Lisk ecosystem which means that all the practical info regarding invoking endpoints should be here.

The page for subscribing to events has been created with the same thought. It will house all the ways through which events can be subscribed to in the lisk ecosystem. The page should definitely talk about the type of events that are generated through the lisk service. It will also mention how one can subscribe to such an event. This content will move there.

> === Subscribe to Events

Author: As discussed, there is now an issue created to move the new subscribe to events section into the Subscribing to events page. https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-docs/issues/1843

> The Subscribe events feature allows connecting to specific endpoints to receive real-time updates or notifications, as shown in the examples below.
> Further information can be found in the xref:{url_subscribing_to_events}[Subscribing to events] page.

Reviewer 2: The reference for `Subscribing to events` is incorrect in this context. It should point to https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/beta/api/lisk-service-pubsub.html instead. `url_subscribing_to_events` will need to be replaced with an appropriate variable name.
```suggestion
The Lisk Service Subscribe API allows subscribing to events to receive real-time updates or notifications, as shown in the examples below.
A detailed list of all available emitted events are available in the xref:{url_subscribing_to_events}[Publish/Subscribe API (Lisk Service)] page.
```

> A detailed list of all available emitted events are available in the xref:{url_subscribing_to_events}[Publish/Subscribe API (Lisk Service)] page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A detailed list of all available emitted events are available in the xref:{url_lisk_service_pubsub}[Publish/Subscribe API (Lisk Service)] page.
```

The API base URL is the base URL for the Lisk Service WS-RPC endpoints, that are available to query under the `/rpc-v3` namespace.

* *WS-RPC:* `wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3`

For WS, the RPC endpoint name is passed in the `method` property after establishing a WebSocket connection using {url_socket_io}[socket.io].
An example using the WS JSON-RPC API can be seen below.

.WS JSON-RPC API
[source,js]
----
const io = require('socket.io-client');

const REQUEST_TIMEOUT = 10 * 1000;

const apiEndpoint = 'wss://service.lisk.com/rpc-v3';
const rpcEndpoint = 'get.network.status';
const rpcParams = {};

const socket = io(
	apiEndpoint,
	{
		forceNew: true,
		transports: ['websocket'],
	},
);

socket.emit(
	'request', // channel on which Lisk Service handles the WS-RPC calls
	{
		method: rpcEndpoint,
		params: rpcParams,
	},
	answer => {
		console.log(JSON.stringify(answer, null, 2));
		process.exit(0);
	},
);

setTimeout(
	() => {
		console.log('Request timeout - could not get a response.');
		process.exit(1);
	},
	REQUEST_TIMEOUT,
);
----

For detailed information and examples please visit the xref:{url_rpc_api}[RPC API Lisk Service] page.

=== Invoking the HTTP API

> Lisk Service also offers a RESTful xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications that are compliant with the Lisk protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lisk Service also offers the RESTful xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] with various additional endpoints, that for example, could be deployed to build user interfaces and wallets for blockchain applications that are compliant with the Lisk protocol.
```

		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});

----
--
An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.
+
--
[source,js]
----
const axios = require('axios');

const postEndpoint = 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/validator/validate-bls-key';
const postEndpointParams = {
  blsKey: 'b301803f8b5ac4a1133581fc676dfedc60d891dd5fa99028805e5ea5b08d3491af75d0707adab3b70c6a6a580217bf81',
  proofOfPossession: '88bb31b27eae23038e14f9d9d1b628a39f5881b5278c3c6f0249f81ba0deb1f68aa5f8847854d6554051aa810fdf1cdb02df4af7a5647b1aa4afb60ec6d446ee17af24a8a50876ffdaf9bf475038ec5f8ebeda1c1c6a3220293e23b13a9a5d26',
};

axios.post(
	postEndpoint,
	postEndpointParams,
)
	.then((axiosResponse) => {
		const { data: apiResponse } = axiosResponse;
		console.log(JSON.stringify(apiResponse, null, 2));
	});
----
--
HTTP cURL::
To check the network status the following command can be used.
+
--
// With a {JSON_RPC_Specs}[JSON RPC 2.0] based format, any endpoint can be invoked using a cURL request.
[source,bash]
----
curl --location --request GET 'https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/network/status'
----
--

> An example of how to execute a POST request to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of how to execute a `POST` request via `curl` to validate a BLS key and Proof of Possession pair is shown below:
```

* Public API base URL: `{url_api_testnet}`
* API specification: xref:{url_api_http_testnet}[Lisk Service HTTP API reference (Testnet)]

> The Lisk Service HTTP API can be accessed using request libraries such as xref:{url_axios}[Axios] or a command-line tool such as cURL, as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lisk Service HTTP API can be accessed using request libraries such as {url_axios}[Axios] or a command-line tool such as cURL, as shown below.
```
